{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 What have we seen?\
\
We started with some very straightforward scala code. That\'92s a style of code I use a lot, starting with writing down the types, and figuring out how I want to operate with them.  There was nothing complicated there. The take away point: is have an opinion on what you use from the language.\
\
We took a look at a very simple functional programming idea, the monoid. What I\'92d like you to remember from that the ideas from functional programming help as your solving problems.  They\'92re not fancy ideas for annoying people with.\
\
And finally, we took a brief look at some of the power features that Scala has. And you can ignore them, or start to dip into them as you need. If you\'92re doing that, please make sure you share the learning around your team.  That won\'92t happen unless you create an environment for your team to share knowledge around.\
\
On the first part, the straightforward part, the picture is set to get better.  At the start of this year, Martin Odersky the father of Scala, set out his agenda to make the Scala simpler.\
\
And on the second part, when it comes to making use of types, well I was using a library for that from a community called typelevel scala, which you can find here at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://typelevel.org"}}{\fldrslt typelevel.org}}.  Theres a bunch of libraries there from foundational functional programming, to numerics things, and database libraries\'85.many libraries.  But what\'92s good for us in particular is the focus on:\
\
Functional Programming in Scala - not Scala  trying to be another language like Java or Haskell, but using functional programming with Scala in idiomatic way.\
And also making available learning resources, to make the ideas more accessible.\
\
Both of those are goals. They are not done yet, but that\'92s I think is the right direction to be going in.  And I suggest you get involved in, try things, jump on gitter and ask questions.\
\
Remember: Scala scales with the team, use the parts you want, you don\'92t have to rush in and use it all.  And make use of those type ideas from functional programming. They are there to help you. And share what you learn.\
}